README.md, before:

# Ancon Protocol Node v0.6.0


### Protocol for secure offchain data economy

Ancon protocol is a new kind of SDK and technology that can be used to implement secure offchain data integrations using best of breed offchain protocols like ipfs and any blockchain with smart contracts support.


![AnconProtocolProducts](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1248071/147708647-f0e25a24-8c54-4a62-923e-5a73bb0c9e60.png)


## Ancon Protocol Node - L2 Gateway

Node manages offchain data integrations and trusted offchain gateways.  It has DID web and DID key, Graphsync, and dag-json / dag-cbor technology support.



## Usage

1. Download latest release
2. Create rootkey with `anconsync --init`
2. Production settings (recommended) `anconsync  --rootkey=<your new rootkey> --peeraddr /ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/4001/p2p/<peer-id> --cors true  --origins=http://localhost:3000 --quic true --tlscert=/etc/letsencrypt/live/mynode/fullchain.pem --tlskey=/etc/letsencrypt/live/mynode/privkey.pem
~                                                                                                                                `
3. Configure ports and firewall rules
4. Enjoy

## Getting started
``` bash
go mod tidy
```
``` bash
go build ./main.go
```
``` bash
./main
```

If you have problems with the system buffer size this can help:
https://github.com/lucas-clemente/quic-go/wiki/UDP-Receive-Buffer-Size

## Run Docker container
``` bash
docker-compose build app
```
``` bash
docker-compose up
```
# API Reference




## `POST /v0/did/web`
## `POST /v0/did`

> Creates a new Decentralized Identity


### Parameters

Set `etherdid` to create a DID-web with ethereum support (ethr-did). Set `pub` to empty for auto generated identity based on did-key. For did-web, use `domainName`.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `domainName` | `string` | Subdomain eg alice.ipfs.pa |
| `etherdid` | `string` | Eg did:ethr:mumbai:0x.... |
| `pub` | `string` | (hex) public key  |


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
  {
    "commitHash": "/AzWS9kE67z+wRs8htT3G+bRYDLy8V/Jg/cGUBprV/s=",
  "content": {
    "/": "baguqeerafkyyjhrgfai6x6djd23ot2d6vytaf35uvg6s2egc7llqkuc7nfua"
  },
  "height": 4892,
  "issuer": "0xeeC58E89996496640c8b5898A7e0218E9b6E90cB",
  "key": "L2FuY29ucHJvdG9jb2wvYmFmeXJlaWJxaXFiY2FmbnptanFtdjNpeTd1emppaW1uZWlxMmNxc3AzYm1odGNqYnJ3eXF3dnl3YmkvdXNlci9iYWd1cWVlcmFma3l5amhyZ2ZhaTZ4NmRqZDIzb3QyZDZ2eXRhZjM1dXZnNnMyZWdjN2xscWt1YzduZnVh",
  "parent": "/anconprotocol/bafyreibqiqbcafnzmjqmv3iy7uzjiimneiq2cqsp3bmhtcjbrwyqwvywbi/user",
  "signature": "0x971d3282785c390336860c5f5e5e1c7058f028738da7a003b8d81da7182cd6880798f8608e74d381c77d071f88adfa20e528bed1afba05f3c564bc6b59ec2dc61c",
  "timestamp": 1642350132
  }
```


## `GET /v0/did/:did`

> Returns did document as json

Supports following responses:

- DAG Transaction response use `raw:<did-id>` eg `v0/did/raw:did:ethr:mumbai:0x32A21c1bB6E7C20F547e930b53dAC57f42cd25F6`
- DID JSON use did eg `v0/did/did:ethr:mumbai:0x32A21c1bB6E7C20F547e930b53dAC57f42cd25F6`

### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `did` | `string` | DID Doc id |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | A did document |

example of the returned object:

```javascript
{
  "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"],
  "authentication": [
    "",
    {
      "controller": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF",
      "id": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF#",
      "publicKeyBase58": "J8v1rHsHjrBP9khKJdiZBrfq4u2Ame2aUsv8fACmKjaF",
      "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ],
  "created": "2021-12-04T07:57:33.030203855-05:00",
  "id": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF",
  "updated": "2021-12-04T07:57:33.030203855-05:00",
  "verificationMethod": [
    {
      "controller": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF",
      "id": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF#",
      "publicKeyBase58": "J8v1rHsHjrBP9khKJdiZBrfq4u2Ame2aUsv8fACmKjaF",
      "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ]
}

```

## `GET /proof/:key?height=n&export=qr&bgcolor=hex&fgcolor=hex`

> Gets a proof given a key and height


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `key` | `string` | Key(base 64) |
| `height` | `int` | Height (int) |
| `export` | `string` | Export as: qr |
| `bgcolor` | `string` | background hex rgb |
| `fgcolor` | `string` | foreground hex rgb |


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the hash |


## `GET /proofs/lasthash`

> Reads current last hash


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the hash |

## `GET /user/:did/did.json`

> Reads a did-web


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `did` | `string` | did web domain name   |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
{
  "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"],
  "authentication": [
    "",
    {
      "controller": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "id": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "publicKeyBase58": "ER5jUmbiApGWtR4QVHjG7nHpaMGhZmf4BRMSLw4tBeEmT8RZhUKwppqsjHihwXp4RpVjVXaChRZFyKj1s41uGJs",
      "type": "Secp256k1VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ],
  "created": "2021-12-04T08:20:35.623500975-05:00",
  "id": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
  "updated": "2021-12-04T08:20:35.623500975-05:00",
  "verificationMethod": [
    {
      "controller": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "id": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "publicKeyBase58": "ER5jUmbiApGWtR4QVHjG7nHpaMGhZmf4BRMSLw4tBeEmT8RZhUKwppqsjHihwXp4RpVjVXaChRZFyKj1s41uGJs",
      "type": "Secp256k1VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ]
}

```

## `PUT /v0/dagjson`
## `PUT /v0/dag`

> Mutates a dag-json in users path. Must have registerd DID and messasge must be signed with signature matching DID.


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `from` | `string` | DID identifier |
| `signature` | `string` | signature as hex |
| `data` | `object` | Mutations |
| `cid` | `string` | cid to mutate |


### Mutations

Mutations only apply to the current cid, and is executed sequentially. Each sequence cid stored in `parent` property.

```json
{ 
  ...,
  "data": [
    {
      "path": "content/royalty",
      "previousValue": 0.1,
      "nextValue": 1,
    },
    {
      "path": "content/owner",
      "previousValue": "alice",
      "nextValue": "bob",
    },
    {
      // will add a new node
      "path": "tag",
      "previousValue": null,
      "nextValue": "nft_from_panama",
    },
  ],
  ...,
}
```


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
{
  "cid": {
    "/": "baguqeeraui7hue3i2smgzmzdqmrxrnicqpoggayqkoocqdcjf3q5n66smdlq"
  }
}
```


## `POST /v0/dagjson`
## `POST /v0/dag`

> Stores json as dag-json in users path. Must have registerd DID and messasge must be signed with signature matching DID.


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `path` | `string` | path |
| `from` | `string` | DID identifier |
| `signature` | `string` | signature as hex |
| `data` | `object` | object to store |
| `encrypt` | `bool` | enables JOSE Web Encryption |
| `authorizedRecipients` | `string array` | comma delimited Ethereum address



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
{
  "cid": {
    "/": "baguqeeraui7hue3i2smgzmzdqmrxrnicqpoggayqkoocqdcjf3q5n66smdlq"
  }
}
```




## `GET /v0/dagjson/:cid/*path?`
## `GET /v0/dag/:cid/*path`

> Reads a dag-json block

### Query with namespaces, Ancon cids and IPFS cids

DAG storage has the following namespaces available:

#### anconprotocol 

A DAG store creates at init time a genesis, which is called root key. This root key is found in the `anconprotocol` namespace.

#### anconprotocol/users

DIDs and DAG blocks are created under `anconprotocol/users` and the HTTP GET queries by default this namespace. Blocks created here return DAG results.


#### anconprotocol/graphs

Reserved space for subgraph networks

### Enhanced Get query

You can query any namespace by adding `namespace` as a query string

```html
https://api.ancon.did.pa/v0/dagjson/baguqeerac33uoqmawkru523zwubchxitrsinqskl7yjr67nqsxtocqv7to7q/?namespace=anconprotocol/users/0x32A21c1bB6E7C20F547e930b53dAC57f42cd25F6
```

### DAG Response


```json
 {
  "commitHash": "/AzWS9kE67z+wRs8htT3G+bRYDLy8V/Jg/cGUBprV/s=",
  "content": {
    "/": "baguqeerafkyyjhrgfai6x6djd23ot2d6vytaf35uvg6s2egc7llqkuc7nfua"
  },
  "height": 4892,
  "issuer": "0xeeC58E89996496640c8b5898A7e0218E9b6E90cB",
  "key": "L2FuY29ucHJvdG9jb2wvYmFmeXJlaWJxaXFiY2FmbnptanFtdjNpeTd1emppaW1uZWlxMmNxc3AzYm1odGNqYnJ3eXF3dnl3YmkvdXNlci9iYWd1cWVlcmFma3l5amhyZ2ZhaTZ4NmRqZDIzb3QyZDZ2eXRhZjM1dXZnNnMyZWdjN2xscWt1YzduZnVh",
  "parent": "/anconprotocol/bafyreibqiqbcafnzmjqmv3iy7uzjiimneiq2cqsp3bmhtcjbrwyqwvywbi/user",
  "signature": "0x971d3282785c390336860c5f5e5e1c7058f028738da7a003b8d81da7182cd6880798f8608e74d381c77d071f88adfa20e528bed1afba05f3c564bc6b59ec2dc61c",
  "timestamp": 1642350132
}
```

If you query a link inside the response and if is unique, then you get the complete node response, otherwise you get a set of links.

### Fallback

Recommended usage is to create a client load balancer with fallback functionality:

- Ancon Protocol Node
- Pinning Service 
- Public IPFS Gateway

### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `cid` | `string` | cid |
| `path` | `string` | path |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<DagResponse>` |  json object |



```json
 {
  "commitHash": "/AzWS9kE67z+wRs8htT3G+bRYDLy8V/Jg/cGUBprV/s=",
  "content": {
    "/": "baguqeerafkyyjhrgfai6x6djd23ot2d6vytaf35uvg6s2egc7llqkuc7nfua"
  },
  "height": 4892,
  "issuer": "0xeeC58E89996496640c8b5898A7e0218E9b6E90cB",
  "key": "L2FuY29ucHJvdG9jb2wvYmFmeXJlaWJxaXFiY2FmbnptanFtdjNpeTd1emppaW1uZWlxMmNxc3AzYm1odGNqYnJ3eXF3dnl3YmkvdXNlci9iYWd1cWVlcmFma3l5amhyZ2ZhaTZ4NmRqZDIzb3QyZDZ2eXRhZjM1dXZnNnMyZWdjN2xscWt1YzduZnVh",
  "parent": "/anconprotocol/bafyreibqiqbcafnzmjqmv3iy7uzjiimneiq2cqsp3bmhtcjbrwyqwvywbi/user",
  "signature": "0x971d3282785c390336860c5f5e5e1c7058f028738da7a003b8d81da7182cd6880798f8608e74d381c77d071f88adfa20e528bed1afba05f3c564bc6b59ec2dc61c",
  "timestamp": 1642350132
}
```


## `GET /v0/file/:cid/*path`

> Reads a dag-json block


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `cid` | `string` | cid |
| `path` | `string` | path |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` |  content type stream|

example of the returned object:

```
<...data...>
```


## `GET /swagger`

> REST documentation


# CLI Reference

- `peeraddr`: Connects to subgraph node with IPFS
- `addr`:  Host libp2p address
- `apiaddr`:  Host API address
- `data`: Storage directory
- `cors`: Set to true to enable CORS requests
- `origins`: Comma separated list of addresses
- `init`: Initializes the proof storage by creating a genesis block
- `keys`: Generates Secp256k1 keys
- `hostname`: Node identifier
- `rootkey`: Rootkey to validate
- `sync`: Syncs with peers
- `peers`:  List of peers to sync
- `quic`: Enables QUIC 
- `tlscert`: TLS certificate for QUIC
- `tlskey`: TLS key for QUIC
- `ipfshost`: IPFS Host address for DAG Pinning

# Trusted offchain gateways

Ancon Protocol node can be used to integrate onchain and offchain sources using EIP-3668 Durin or also called Trusted Offchain gateway. Further in `Subgraph networks` chapter, we'll revisit this feature as we replace REST with Graphsync.

## What is trustless and trusted

A trustless setting onchain means the consensus of a blockchain is enough to validate a transaction is valid and has no bad behavior.

In cross chain use cases, there are many to accomplish this, one is with atomic swaps, which we'll use in parts, other is with ZK technology and other with protocols that are based on Merkle Proofs.



> Copyright IFESA 2021, 2022

Commit message:

docker container with .env variables

README.md, after:

# Ancon Protocol Node v0.6.0


### Protocol for secure offchain data economy

Ancon protocol is a new kind of SDK and technology that can be used to implement secure offchain data integrations using best of breed offchain protocols like ipfs and any blockchain with smart contracts support.


![AnconProtocolProducts](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1248071/147708647-f0e25a24-8c54-4a62-923e-5a73bb0c9e60.png)


## Ancon Protocol Node - L2 Gateway

Node manages offchain data integrations and trusted offchain gateways.  It has DID web and DID key, Graphsync, and dag-json / dag-cbor technology support.



## Usage

1. Download latest release
2. Create rootkey with `anconsync --init`
2. Production settings (recommended) `anconsync  --rootkey=<your new rootkey> --peeraddr /ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/4001/p2p/<peer-id> --cors true  --origins=http://localhost:3000 --quic true --tlscert=/etc/letsencrypt/live/mynode/fullchain.pem --tlskey=/etc/letsencrypt/live/mynode/privkey.pem
~                                                                                                                                `
3. Configure ports and firewall rules
4. Enjoy

## Getting started
``` bash
go mod tidy
```
``` bash
go build ./main.go
```
``` bash
./main
```

If you have problems with the system buffer size this can help:
https://github.com/lucas-clemente/quic-go/wiki/UDP-Receive-Buffer-Size

## Run Docker container
The directory needs to have a .env file like this:
```
export IPFSHOST=
export ROOTKEY=
export PEERADDR=
export CORS=
export ORIGINS=
export QUIC=
export TLSCERT=
export TLSKEY=
```
Then you can build & run the container.
``` bash
docker-compose build app
```
``` bash
docker-compose up
```
# API Reference




## `POST /v0/did/web`
## `POST /v0/did`

> Creates a new Decentralized Identity


### Parameters

Set `etherdid` to create a DID-web with ethereum support (ethr-did). Set `pub` to empty for auto generated identity based on did-key. For did-web, use `domainName`.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `domainName` | `string` | Subdomain eg alice.ipfs.pa |
| `etherdid` | `string` | Eg did:ethr:mumbai:0x.... |
| `pub` | `string` | (hex) public key  |


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
  {
    "commitHash": "/AzWS9kE67z+wRs8htT3G+bRYDLy8V/Jg/cGUBprV/s=",
  "content": {
    "/": "baguqeerafkyyjhrgfai6x6djd23ot2d6vytaf35uvg6s2egc7llqkuc7nfua"
  },
  "height": 4892,
  "issuer": "0xeeC58E89996496640c8b5898A7e0218E9b6E90cB",
  "key": "L2FuY29ucHJvdG9jb2wvYmFmeXJlaWJxaXFiY2FmbnptanFtdjNpeTd1emppaW1uZWlxMmNxc3AzYm1odGNqYnJ3eXF3dnl3YmkvdXNlci9iYWd1cWVlcmFma3l5amhyZ2ZhaTZ4NmRqZDIzb3QyZDZ2eXRhZjM1dXZnNnMyZWdjN2xscWt1YzduZnVh",
  "parent": "/anconprotocol/bafyreibqiqbcafnzmjqmv3iy7uzjiimneiq2cqsp3bmhtcjbrwyqwvywbi/user",
  "signature": "0x971d3282785c390336860c5f5e5e1c7058f028738da7a003b8d81da7182cd6880798f8608e74d381c77d071f88adfa20e528bed1afba05f3c564bc6b59ec2dc61c",
  "timestamp": 1642350132
  }
```


## `GET /v0/did/:did`

> Returns did document as json

Supports following responses:

- DAG Transaction response use `raw:<did-id>` eg `v0/did/raw:did:ethr:mumbai:0x32A21c1bB6E7C20F547e930b53dAC57f42cd25F6`
- DID JSON use did eg `v0/did/did:ethr:mumbai:0x32A21c1bB6E7C20F547e930b53dAC57f42cd25F6`

### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `did` | `string` | DID Doc id |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | A did document |

example of the returned object:

```javascript
{
  "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"],
  "authentication": [
    "",
    {
      "controller": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF",
      "id": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF#",
      "publicKeyBase58": "J8v1rHsHjrBP9khKJdiZBrfq4u2Ame2aUsv8fACmKjaF",
      "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ],
  "created": "2021-12-04T07:57:33.030203855-05:00",
  "id": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF",
  "updated": "2021-12-04T07:57:33.030203855-05:00",
  "verificationMethod": [
    {
      "controller": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF",
      "id": "did:key:z3rc1YQMG366ttmuHeX2qodNeZAEhU6ktdjJEdLMRGX9gtpjaHitW6eu4BvZMEF#",
      "publicKeyBase58": "J8v1rHsHjrBP9khKJdiZBrfq4u2Ame2aUsv8fACmKjaF",
      "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ]
}

```

## `GET /proof/:key?height=n&export=qr&bgcolor=hex&fgcolor=hex`

> Gets a proof given a key and height


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `key` | `string` | Key(base 64) |
| `height` | `int` | Height (int) |
| `export` | `string` | Export as: qr |
| `bgcolor` | `string` | background hex rgb |
| `fgcolor` | `string` | foreground hex rgb |


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the hash |


## `GET /proofs/lasthash`

> Reads current last hash


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the hash |

## `GET /user/:did/did.json`

> Reads a did-web


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `did` | `string` | did web domain name   |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
{
  "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"],
  "authentication": [
    "",
    {
      "controller": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "id": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "publicKeyBase58": "ER5jUmbiApGWtR4QVHjG7nHpaMGhZmf4BRMSLw4tBeEmT8RZhUKwppqsjHihwXp4RpVjVXaChRZFyKj1s41uGJs",
      "type": "Secp256k1VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ],
  "created": "2021-12-04T08:20:35.623500975-05:00",
  "id": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
  "updated": "2021-12-04T08:20:35.623500975-05:00",
  "verificationMethod": [
    {
      "controller": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "id": "did:web:ipfs:user:rogelio",
      "publicKeyBase58": "ER5jUmbiApGWtR4QVHjG7nHpaMGhZmf4BRMSLw4tBeEmT8RZhUKwppqsjHihwXp4RpVjVXaChRZFyKj1s41uGJs",
      "type": "Secp256k1VerificationKey2018"
    }
  ]
}

```

## `PUT /v0/dagjson`
## `PUT /v0/dag`

> Mutates a dag-json in users path. Must have registerd DID and messasge must be signed with signature matching DID.


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `from` | `string` | DID identifier |
| `signature` | `string` | signature as hex |
| `data` | `object` | Mutations |
| `cid` | `string` | cid to mutate |


### Mutations

Mutations only apply to the current cid, and is executed sequentially. Each sequence cid stored in `parent` property.

```json
{ 
  ...,
  "data": [
    {
      "path": "content/royalty",
      "previousValue": 0.1,
      "nextValue": 1,
    },
    {
      "path": "content/owner",
      "previousValue": "alice",
      "nextValue": "bob",
    },
    {
      // will add a new node
      "path": "tag",
      "previousValue": null,
      "nextValue": "nft_from_panama",
    },
  ],
  ...,
}
```


### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
{
  "cid": {
    "/": "baguqeeraui7hue3i2smgzmzdqmrxrnicqpoggayqkoocqdcjf3q5n66smdlq"
  }
}
```


## `POST /v0/dagjson`
## `POST /v0/dag`

> Stores json as dag-json in users path. Must have registerd DID and messasge must be signed with signature matching DID.


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `path` | `string` | path |
| `from` | `string` | DID identifier |
| `signature` | `string` | signature as hex |
| `data` | `object` | object to store |
| `encrypt` | `bool` | enables JOSE Web Encryption |
| `authorizedRecipients` | `string array` | comma delimited Ethereum address



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` | An object that contains the CID |

example of the returned object:

```json
{
  "cid": {
    "/": "baguqeeraui7hue3i2smgzmzdqmrxrnicqpoggayqkoocqdcjf3q5n66smdlq"
  }
}
```




## `GET /v0/dagjson/:cid/*path?`
## `GET /v0/dag/:cid/*path`

> Reads a dag-json block

### Query with namespaces, Ancon cids and IPFS cids

DAG storage has the following namespaces available:

#### anconprotocol 

A DAG store creates at init time a genesis, which is called root key. This root key is found in the `anconprotocol` namespace.

#### anconprotocol/users

DIDs and DAG blocks are created under `anconprotocol/users` and the HTTP GET queries by default this namespace. Blocks created here return DAG results.


#### anconprotocol/graphs

Reserved space for subgraph networks

### Enhanced Get query

You can query any namespace by adding `namespace` as a query string

```html
https://api.ancon.did.pa/v0/dagjson/baguqeerac33uoqmawkru523zwubchxitrsinqskl7yjr67nqsxtocqv7to7q/?namespace=anconprotocol/users/0x32A21c1bB6E7C20F547e930b53dAC57f42cd25F6
```

### DAG Response


```json
 {
  "commitHash": "/AzWS9kE67z+wRs8htT3G+bRYDLy8V/Jg/cGUBprV/s=",
  "content": {
    "/": "baguqeerafkyyjhrgfai6x6djd23ot2d6vytaf35uvg6s2egc7llqkuc7nfua"
  },
  "height": 4892,
  "issuer": "0xeeC58E89996496640c8b5898A7e0218E9b6E90cB",
  "key": "L2FuY29ucHJvdG9jb2wvYmFmeXJlaWJxaXFiY2FmbnptanFtdjNpeTd1emppaW1uZWlxMmNxc3AzYm1odGNqYnJ3eXF3dnl3YmkvdXNlci9iYWd1cWVlcmFma3l5amhyZ2ZhaTZ4NmRqZDIzb3QyZDZ2eXRhZjM1dXZnNnMyZWdjN2xscWt1YzduZnVh",
  "parent": "/anconprotocol/bafyreibqiqbcafnzmjqmv3iy7uzjiimneiq2cqsp3bmhtcjbrwyqwvywbi/user",
  "signature": "0x971d3282785c390336860c5f5e5e1c7058f028738da7a003b8d81da7182cd6880798f8608e74d381c77d071f88adfa20e528bed1afba05f3c564bc6b59ec2dc61c",
  "timestamp": 1642350132
}
```

If you query a link inside the response and if is unique, then you get the complete node response, otherwise you get a set of links.

### Fallback

Recommended usage is to create a client load balancer with fallback functionality:

- Ancon Protocol Node
- Pinning Service 
- Public IPFS Gateway

### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `cid` | `string` | cid |
| `path` | `string` | path |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<DagResponse>` |  json object |



```json
 {
  "commitHash": "/AzWS9kE67z+wRs8htT3G+bRYDLy8V/Jg/cGUBprV/s=",
  "content": {
    "/": "baguqeerafkyyjhrgfai6x6djd23ot2d6vytaf35uvg6s2egc7llqkuc7nfua"
  },
  "height": 4892,
  "issuer": "0xeeC58E89996496640c8b5898A7e0218E9b6E90cB",
  "key": "L2FuY29ucHJvdG9jb2wvYmFmeXJlaWJxaXFiY2FmbnptanFtdjNpeTd1emppaW1uZWlxMmNxc3AzYm1odGNqYnJ3eXF3dnl3YmkvdXNlci9iYWd1cWVlcmFma3l5amhyZ2ZhaTZ4NmRqZDIzb3QyZDZ2eXRhZjM1dXZnNnMyZWdjN2xscWt1YzduZnVh",
  "parent": "/anconprotocol/bafyreibqiqbcafnzmjqmv3iy7uzjiimneiq2cqsp3bmhtcjbrwyqwvywbi/user",
  "signature": "0x971d3282785c390336860c5f5e5e1c7058f028738da7a003b8d81da7182cd6880798f8608e74d381c77d071f88adfa20e528bed1afba05f3c564bc6b59ec2dc61c",
  "timestamp": 1642350132
}
```


## `GET /v0/file/:cid/*path`

> Reads a dag-json block


### Parameters


| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `cid` | `string` | cid |
| `path` | `string` | path |



### Returns

| Type | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| `Promise<Response>` |  content type stream|

example of the returned object:

```
<...data...>
```


## `GET /swagger`

> REST documentation


# CLI Reference

- `peeraddr`: Connects to subgraph node with IPFS
- `addr`:  Host libp2p address
- `apiaddr`:  Host API address
- `data`: Storage directory
- `cors`: Set to true to enable CORS requests
- `origins`: Comma separated list of addresses
- `init`: Initializes the proof storage by creating a genesis block
- `keys`: Generates Secp256k1 keys
- `hostname`: Node identifier
- `rootkey`: Rootkey to validate
- `sync`: Syncs with peers
- `peers`:  List of peers to sync
- `quic`: Enables QUIC 
- `tlscert`: TLS certificate for QUIC
- `tlskey`: TLS key for QUIC
- `ipfshost`: IPFS Host address for DAG Pinning

# Trusted offchain gateways

Ancon Protocol node can be used to integrate onchain and offchain sources using EIP-3668 Durin or also called Trusted Offchain gateway. Further in `Subgraph networks` chapter, we'll revisit this feature as we replace REST with Graphsync.

## What is trustless and trusted

A trustless setting onchain means the consensus of a blockchain is enough to validate a transaction is valid and has no bad behavior.

In cross chain use cases, there are many to accomplish this, one is with atomic swaps, which we'll use in parts, other is with ZK technology and other with protocols that are based on Merkle Proofs.



> Copyright IFESA 2021, 2022
